# /Components

## Dynamic components

There are two kinds of components:

- regular components
- dynamic components

Regular components are those that only can be referenced from the code, as you have always done.

_Hypothetical fragment of a JS file_

```js
<SomeRegularComponent someParameter={"foo"} />
```

Dynamic components can also be referenced from the data, and Orgasmo will render then dynamically.

_Hypothetical fragment of a driver response_

```json
{
  "type": "SomeDynamicComponent",
  "props": {
    "someParameter": "foo"
  }
}
```

You can use a dynamic component as a regular component. From a React perspective, there is no difference between them. But Orgasmo only uses dynamic components to render the pages, if you try to do `"type": "SomeRegularComponent"` Orgasmo will render `<div data-component-name="SomeRegularComponent"></div>` to indicate that it miss a dynamic component with that name.

In general you will only need to write the component, and let the orgasmo mount it where and when the data sais so.

## Where to place the components

You can place your regular components wherever you want, but dynamic components have to be placed inside the `/components`tree.

Just add the prefix `.dynamic.` before the file extension, to let Orgasmo know that you might use those dynamically.

**Important:** The dynamic component needs to be the default export of the `ComponentName.dynamic.{jsx,tsx}` file

## /Components.jsx

This file is auto-generated by the build tool.

It's a regular component that acts as a proxy to render the dynamic component matching the type.

It has a pretty straightforward code you can easily read and understand. You will notice that there is nothing magical here.

## How to use dynamic components as regular components

Just import the file as you would import any regular component, and use it.

```js
import SomeDynamicComponent from '~/components/SomeDynamicComponent.dynamic.jsx`

return () => (
    <SomeDynamicComponent foo={"bar" />
)
```

## How to manually use dynamic components dynamically

Just import `/Components.jsx` and pass a type and some props to it.

```js
import Components from '~/Components.jsx`

return ({ type, props }) => (
    <Components type={type} props={props} />
)
```
